README.md, before:

# DrawTogether.NET

A collaborative browser-based drawing program written in .NET.

Please see [REQUIREMENTS](docs/requirements.md) for more information.

## Running Locally

First things first, you will need to launch the dependencies for DrawTogether.NET - make sure you have `docker` installed locally:

**Windows**

```shell
start-dependencies.cmd
```

**Linux**

```shell
start-dependencies.sh
```

This will launch, among other things, a prebuilt SQL Server 2022 instance that has the correct default connection string and `DrawTogether` database required by DrawTogether.NET.

### Entity Framework Core Migrations

If you need to apply a change to the database model, by default this project uses the SQL Server 2022 launched in the step above. To apply migrations, change your directory to the `DrawTogether` project:

```shell
cd ./src/DrawTogether/
```

And then apply the migrations:

```shell
dotnet ef database update
```

To generate a migration script that you can apply manually (later):

```shell
dotnet ef migrations script
```

## MailGun Configuration

DrawTogether.NET can use [MailGun](https://mailgun.com/) to send outbound emails (via `FluentEmail.Mailgun`) - and the following two secrets need to be configured in order for that sending to work:

```shell
cd ./src/DrawTogether/
dotnet user-secrets set "EmailSettings:MailgunDomain" "<mailgun-domain>"
dotnet user-secrets set "EmailSettings:MailgunApiKey" "<mailgun-api-key>"
```

If these settings are not provided, DrawTogether.NET will simply fall back to not having email available to support ASP.NET Core Identity.

## Deployment

Out of the box DrawTogether.NET supports Kubernetes deployments, however, if you want to run it locally you'll need to make sure that you have [Nginx Ingress](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/#quick-start) enabled.

This is how to deploy the most recent version of Nginx Ingress on Docker Desktop at the time of writing this:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v1.10.1/deploy/static/provider/cloud/deploy.yaml
```

Next, you will need to build a local Docker image:

```
dotnet publish src/DrawTogether/DrawTogether.csproj --os linux --arch x64 -c Release -p:PublishProfile=DefaultContainer
```

This will tag a local Docker image with the following labels:

* `drawtogether-app:latest`
* `drawtogether-app:{VERSION}`

Update the [`k8s-web-service.yaml`](k8s/services/k8s-web-service.yaml) to use the `drawtogether-app:{VERSION}` label - if you try to use the `drawtogether-app:latest` Kubernetes will attempt to pull the latest image from Docker Hub.

Finally, launch everything via the `./k8s/deployAll.cmd` - and DrawTogether should be available at http://drawtogether.localdev.me

Commit message:

added .NET Aspire to `README.md`

README.md, after:

# DrawTogether.NET

A collaborative browser-based drawing program written in .NET.

## Running Locally

First things first, you will need to launch the dependencies for DrawTogether.NET - make sure you have `docker` installed locally - the easiest way to do this is with [].NET Aspire](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/get-started/aspire-overview):

```shell
dotnet run --project --project src/DrawTogether.AppHost/DrawTogether.AppHost.csproj
```

This will:
- Start the SQL Server database
- Run the migration service to initialize the database
- Launch the DrawTogether web application
- Open the Aspire dashboard in your browser

The Aspire dashboard will show you all running services with their statuses and endpoints.


### Entity Framework Core Migrations

If you need to apply a change to the database model, by default this project uses the SQL Server 2022 launched in the step above. To apply migrations, change your directory to the `DrawTogether` project:

```shell
cd ./src/DrawTogether/
```

And then apply the migrations:

```shell
dotnet ef database update
```

To generate a migration script that you can apply manually (later):

```shell
dotnet ef migrations script
```

## MailGun Configuration

DrawTogether.NET can use [MailGun](https://mailgun.com/) to send outbound emails (via `FluentEmail.Mailgun`) - and the following two secrets need to be configured in order for that sending to work:

```shell
cd ./src/DrawTogether/
dotnet user-secrets set "EmailSettings:MailgunDomain" "<mailgun-domain>"
dotnet user-secrets set "EmailSettings:MailgunApiKey" "<mailgun-api-key>"
```

If these settings are not provided, DrawTogether.NET will simply fall back to not having email available to support ASP.NET Core Identity.

## Deployment

Out of the box DrawTogether.NET supports Kubernetes deployments, however, if you want to run it locally you'll need to make sure that you have [Nginx Ingress](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/#quick-start) enabled.

This is how to deploy the most recent version of Nginx Ingress on Docker Desktop at the time of writing this:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v1.10.1/deploy/static/provider/cloud/deploy.yaml
```

Next, you will need to build a local Docker image:

```
dotnet publish src/DrawTogether/DrawTogether.csproj --os linux --arch x64 -c Release -p:PublishProfile=DefaultContainer
```

This will tag a local Docker image with the following labels:

* `drawtogether-app:latest`
* `drawtogether-app:{VERSION}`

Update the [`k8s-web-service.yaml`](k8s/services/k8s-web-service.yaml) to use the `drawtogether-app:{VERSION}` label - if you try to use the `drawtogether-app:latest` Kubernetes will attempt to pull the latest image from Docker Hub.

Finally, launch everything via the `./k8s/deployAll.cmd` - and DrawTogether should be available at http://drawtogether.localdev.me
